Instructor: Welcome back, in this lecture,
we are going to create CloudWatch Alarms
using Container Insight metrics.
So we are going to create
a EKS worker node CPU usage
related alarm now.
So let's go and see how we are going to do that.
So we can go into CloudWatch management console
and then we can go inside alarms
and then start creating the alarm, right?
In the metrics section we are going to select a metric
which belongs to container insights.
So all other AWS related metrics are under the namespace AWS
but only the container insight stuff,
it came under custom namespaces.
So if you go inside there will be lot of metrics.
134 metrics available for us
in different, different dimensions, okay?
Cluster name, instance ID and the node name,
we have 16 type of metrics here, okay.
So which is related to node memory reserved capacity,
node file system utilization, et cetera.
In the same way with the cluster name, namespace, pod name,
we'll have pod related metrics score.
Cluster name, namespace, service primarily deals
with the Kubernetes service related metrics.
So pod related metrics, service related metrics,
Kubernetes worker node related metrics,
and Kubernetes namespaces related metrics.
In addition to that cluster related metrics
also we'll find it here, okay.
So in EKS demo-1 cluster,
so we are going to find a metric
whose node CPU utilization, okay?
So if you see here this is the node CPU utilization.
So I have selected this and we'll go here
and we can add this metric now, okay.
So in period how it need to run, every five minutes
or how it need to run also we can check it, okay?
So for me if it runs every five minutes is also fine
or every one minute is also fine.
Anything is fine for me.
So I'll leave it to default five minutes
or we can even change it to one minute, okay?
So every one minute it need to pull
and then get the data for us, okay.
So select metric and these are the information
about that metric as of now.
So which is always it is less than four
and whenever you put the load it'll go above four.
So that's the reason I have put the threshold as four.
So to simulate this metric for us,
which means like to simulate an alarm
and send an email for us,
instead of putting the threshold value as 80% or 90%
in regular use cases or in real time use cases.
The CPU usage is 80 or 90, it need to trigger an alert.
I just put 4% because currently it is running
with less than three.
So if I trigger some additional load on that
it might go above four and then provide me a alert.
So for that purpose I have put that.
So metric name is node CPU utilization
and cluster is EKS demo-1
and the period I set it as every one minute it need to run
and the threshold type is static threshold
and when it is greater than so and so value, okay,
so greater than four, right?
So CPU utilization is greater than 4%,
then automatically it need to trigger an alarm for us, okay?
And data points out of one immediately,
means like if one time it occurred,
then immediately trigger an alert, one out of one.
And the missing data treatment, okay.
Treat missing data as missing only, that is fine for us.
So I'll click on next
and now alarm state trigger, when it is in alarm,
trigger it, okay.
So in OK or insufficient data
don't need to trigger an alarm
and then send an email for us, okay?
And it can send an alarm for us using SNS topic
which is nothing but using email,
simple notification service.
So we are going to create a new topic here
named EKS alerts and I'm going to provide a email,
dkalyanreddy@gmail.com
and then create the topic.
So it will create a new topic and a subscription
in the simple notification service.
So we can go to SNS console
and then we can see EKS alerts here
and subscription also for our email is provided here.
So I can go to my email and wait for that email
and once it comes then I'll confirm the subscription, okay.
So now my email confirmation is subscribed.
So let me come back, send, and I'll come here.
And I'll refresh the subscriptions one more time
to see that it is confirmed, good.
So in the topics, if you see here
email is confirmed for us.
So now let me come back here
and move to the next step, okay.
So I have added one subscription
means like one email to be alerted
or you can give a group email support@so-and-so.com
or whatever, okay?
And now in autoscaling actions
so you can autoscale when this alarm happens,
you can even do autoscaling, okay?
So, but our current focus is to just alert.
So we are doing that one, okay?
Auto scaling also if you create your autoscaling groups,
so accordingly you'll be able to alert it.
So let me remove this and let's move on to the next step.
So alarm name, so it should be something like
EKS node CPU alert, okay?
And alarm description.
So it can be like this, okay?
And I'll click on next.
And so if it is anytime above four
then automatically it is going to generate the alert for us.
So, and I'll click on create the alarm, right?
So now our alarm is in insufficient state
because data is currently missing.
Within one or two minutes it will get the data, okay?
So we'll open this alarm
and we need to get the data here.
Yeah, okay, so our graph is good here.
So now what I'll do is I'll go and then add this
to our dashboard.
So we have a EKS performance dashboard here.
So to that I am also going to add this, okay?
And I'll say add dashboard.
So if I go here in EKS performance, right?
So I have this now up and running, right?
So,
now let's come back to our insufficient alarm state here
and let's go back to our GitHub repo and take this command.
So which is nothing but we are going
to generate load now, okay.
So I'll say clear
and paste it.
So I copied
everything, yeah.
And then paste it, okay?
So it is going to generate a load on our thing.
So let's see what is happening here, right?
So what happens here we can see every time.
So one more time run it.
So let's run it.
So it is in OK state now and we are running that load.
So let's see what happens, okay.
So we are throwing the load.
So now you can see the alarm went
into the alarm state, okay?
So we can even see the CPU here.
So it crossed exactly above four
and then immediately it went into alarm state, okay?
So now we'll go to our email
and we can see that we got the notification.
So you are receiving this email
because your CloudWatch alarm
in this respective region has entered the alarm state, okay?
Threshold crossed one out of the one data points
above 44.4 CPU usage.
So which is above four.
So it has alerted us.
So that's about it.
So like this, we can generate multiple alerts for us, okay?
So let me stop this.
So let me stop this, okay?
And we can go here and then like this
we can even create multiple alarms for us
in such a way that you can go here
and then select the metric.
There will be some important metrics like
pod CPU
limit, means like pod CPU over limit, okay?
I'll show you that metric, okay?
Pod
number of container restarts, this is one,
per pod, okay?
So and one is important one, okay?
So when your pod is continuously restarting
you should know, right?
So pod number of container restarts
for that respective pod you can configure, okay?
So and in addition to that
pod CPU utilization over pod limits.
So this is also one, you have defined the limits
and above that it is trying to utilize your pod CPU,
then we'll come to know this one.
So this is also one important metric for us.
So like this, there are different metrics available
for us which we can configure for our applications, okay?
So that's about it.
So if you want to clean up your container insights
so just use this command and then have the values
whatever you have,
means like kubectl delete -f
and then provide EKS demo-1 and then region name
to delete whatever you have installed.
And for the sample application,
whatever you have installed, if you want to delete it.
So you can go ahead and then delete it
by going inside 18 EKS monitoring.
And then kubectl delete -f kube manifests, okay?
So that's about it.
And these are some of the reference links,
you can click on link and then browse the stuff
to understand better about this section, okay?
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye, thank you.